---
layout: project
type: project
image: img/aevs2022/AEVSCROPPED.jpeg
title: "AEVS 2023"
date: 2022
published: true
labels:
  - Robotics
  - Electronics
  - Power
  - CAD Modeling
summary: "The 2023-2024 Autonomous Electric Vehicle System I am working on. Electrical team lead. "
---

The AEVS, or autonomous electric vehicle system, is an autonomous delivery robot created to deliver packages around campus.  The AEV is able to navigate its way throughout campus with its array of sensors, consisting of LIDAR, Ultrasonic Sensors, and cameras. To control the sensors, we are using a Jetson Nano Orin, and for the powertrain, we are using two 2000w motors and brakes to power our vehicle.  To open the vehicle, we are using two linear actuators for our door.  A control center will be located in the POST building, which will be connected to the vehicle by wifi.  As Electrical Systems Lead, I was tasked with managing all of the electronics in the system.

PICTURE HERE

Requirements of the AEV: 

The AEV’s Electrical subsystem has 5 requirements that must be met.  First, the AEV batteries shall possess the capacity to power the motors, propelling the vehicle and cargo at 4 mph for the entire mission duration.  I have prepared for this requirement by discussing with powertrain about the importance of motors we purchased, and doing adequate wattage calculations on our battery. I’ve made sure the batteries in their current configuration will be able to power the AEV.  
	Second, the AEV electronics bay shall integrate onboard hardware for autonomous functionalities, including a system of sensors, microcontrollers, and a CPU.  To prepare for this requirement, we’ve decided to upgrade from a Jetson TX2 to a Jetson Nano Orin, which is a newer model and is capable of controlling the AEV and managing its variety of sensors efficiently.  
	Third, the AEV shall maintain two-way communication with an AEVS CC, located in the POST building, at all points along its footpath network.  For this requirement, we will be utilizing last year’s antennas, which had a large signal range, in order to guarantee there is no loss of connection during its delivery runs.  
	Fourth, the AEV shall stream real-time video feed from its camera system to the AEVS CC throughout its footpath network.  To meet this requirement, we will be implementing a camera system that will monitor the vehicle’s environment. 
	Fifth, the AEV shall incorporate a system of sensors with the ability to detect any obstacle within a range of 20 feet from the vehicle.  For this requirement, we will be using ultrasonic sensors and LiDAR to detect objects near the vehicle. 
